Python format() built-in-function entry (#2592)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/format/format.md

---
Title: '.format()'

Description: The format() function in Python is a built-in function that is used to format different types of objects into strings.

Subjects:
  - 'A subject name'
  - 'A second subject name'
  - 'An nth subject name'

Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'built-in-funtions'

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-git-&-github'

---

The **format()** function returns a string from an input value, formatted to the specified specifications.

## Syntax

format(value, format_specification)

## Example
In the following example we format a float in a variable called pi, which stores an aproximation of the value of pi. The format is done using specifications that denote that the output should be a string that is the provided float, but only using two decimal places.

> 
> pi = 3.14159
> formatted = format(pi, '.2f')
> print(formatted)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```python
pi = 3.14159
formatted = format(pi, '.2f')
print(formatted)
```

```

> Output:
> 3.14
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output for above code is:

```shell
3.14
```

```

## Codebyte Example (if applicable)

The next example uses the **format()** function to convert an integer to a binary and print its string representation.

> 
> value = 42
> formatted = format(value, 'b')  # Format value as binary
> print(formatted)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```python
value = 42
formatted = format(value, 'b')  # Format value as binary
print(formatted)
```

```

> Output:
> 101010

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output for the above code is:
```shell
101010
```

```

---
Title: '.format()'

> Description: The format() function in Python is a built-in function that is used to format different types of objects into strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Used to format different types of objects into strings.'
```

> Subjects:
>   - 'A subject name'
>   - 'A second subject name'
>   - 'An nth subject name'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
```

Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'built-in-funtions'

> CatalogContent:
>   - 'learn-git-&-github'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CatalogContent:
- 'learn-python-3'
- 'paths/computer-science'
```

---

> The **format()** function returns a string from an input value, formatted to the specified specifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **format()** function returns a string from an input value, formatted to the provided specifications.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
format(value, format_specification)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Need a sentence explaining the syntax and an explanation of at least some format specifications.
```

## Example

In the following example, a float is formatted in a variable called "pi," which stores an approximation of the value of pi. The format is done using specifications that denote that the output should be a string that represents the provided float, but only using two decimal places.

```python
pi = 3.14159
formatted = format(pi, '.2f')
print(formatted)
```

Output for above code is:
```shell
3.14
```

## Codebyte Example

The next example uses the **format()** function to convert an integer to a binary and print its string representation.

```codebyte/python
value = 42
formatted = format(value, 'b')  
print(formatted)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove trailing blank line.

---
Title: '.format()'
Description: The format() function in Python is a built-in function that is used to format different types of objects into strings.
Subjects:
  - 'A subject name'
  - 'A second subject name'
  - 'An nth subject name'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'built-in-funtions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-git-&-github'
---

The **format()** function returns a string from an input value, formatted to the specified specifications.

## Syntax

> 
> format(value, format_specification)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

format(value, format_specification)

```

please write syntax snippet like this:
<img width="311" alt="image" src="https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/assets/94860622/a0b27b3e-6d36-4b8c-81c7-85717abe468c">

## Example

In the following example, a float is formatted in a variable called "pi," which stores an approximation of the value of pi. The format is done using specifications that denote that the output should be a string that represents the provided float, but only using two decimal places.

```python
pi = 3.14159
formatted = format(pi, '.2f')
print(formatted)
```

Output for above code is:
```shell
3.14
```

> ## Codebyte Example (if applicable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Codebyte Example
```

The next example uses the **format()** function to convert an integer to a binary and print its string representation.

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```codebyte/python
```

value = 42

> formatted = format(value, 'b')  # Format value as binary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
formatted = format(value, 'b')  
```
no comments in codebytes

print(formatted)
```

> Output for the above code is:
> ```shell
> 101010
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
no need to attach output section for codebyte

---
Title: '.format()'
Description: 'Used to format different types of objects into strings.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'built-in-funtions'
CatalogContent:
- 'learn-python-3'
- 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **format()** function returns a string from an input value, formatted to the provided specifications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **`format()`** function returns a string from an input value, formatted to the provided specifications.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
format(value, format_specification)
```

Where `value` is the value to format, and `format_specification` is the format specification to use.

Example format specifiers:

| Specifier | Meaning                                |
|:---------:|----------------------------------------|

> | b         | Binary format.                         |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `b`         | Binary format                         |
```
